round 5 years of experience on Cross Platform Web/Client-Server applications design and development using Java, J2EE and application server technologies.
Expertise in Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling, Collections Framework, etc.
Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Ext Js, Angular Js, DOM, JSP, JQuery Plug-ins.
Expertise in Advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Prototype, Ext Js, Angular Js, and Object oriented programing in JS.
Extensive experience in Cross-browser HTML, CSS JavaScript coding to offer responsive website layouts to modern browsers and mobile devices.
Extensive experience with CSS3 and leveraging best practices, modifications of existing CSS files to enhance the user experience.
Intermediate experience with Advanced JavaScript including prototype-based inheritance, AJAX, JSON and familiar with JavaScript frameworks such as, JQuery and JQuery-UI.
Experience in major web applications servers, including Apache Tomcat, Jboss and WebLogic.
Deep understanding in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller frame works using Struts and Spring MVC.
Experience in J2EE Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of Business applications in web and client-server environment with JSP, Servlet, AJAX, JDBC, XML, JavaMail, Log4j and Web Services like Soap and Restful.
Strong experience with Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, SQL Server concepts.
Expertise in DB Design, DB normalization and writing SQL queries PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes and Views, etc.
Good knowledge in design understanding the application using UML Data flow diagrams.
Performed unit testing using JUnit test cases, Integration and deployment of applications using build tools like ANT and Maven and debugging through log4j.
Worked on multiple domains like Financial, Travel, and Health care industries.
Worked in Scrum, an Agile methodology for software development.